Hi, everyone.
In this election, we will be drawing lines in circles using canvas.
All right, so first off, let's go ahead and let's select the elements that we will be working with.
Of course, the first element that we will be selecting is going to be the canvas and I'm going to select
it using its I.D. So I'm just going to say get aliment by I.D..
Yeah, we haven't done this in a while now, the idea of the canvas element is drawing Dasch canvas,
right?
The next thing that I want to grab is going to be the increase button increase Beaton and I'm going
to do.
We're reselected this time and let's see how we can selected in the demo.
So the increase has an idea of increase.
So let's grab the idea and spot a no sign and let's put an IED here.
We can basically do the same thing for the decrease between.
And we are going to say decrease, right, decrease, the next thing that I want to grab is, well,
I couldn't think of any better way of like.
And any better idea for the name of this this size, because the idea is size, and if I go ahead and
if I like put the name of the variable to size, then that might be confusing for you.
So I came up with another name and I'm and I'm going to call it stroke, stroke, thickness a right.
And it is this number right here.
This is going to indicate the stroke thickness and it has an idea of size.
So document that query selector.
We are going to grab size.
Right.
The next thing is I want to grab the collar button and finally we are going to select the clear button.
So const color B10.
We are going to say document that.
I'm just going to copy this and I'm going to put it right here so the ID is going to be color.
And finally.
I'm going to grab this collar and I'm going to change it with clear.
I think we are good to go.
So now we have selected all of our e-mail elements that we want to work with in the in the damn right.
So we have selected this this decrease increase this number or size the color.
Right.
Of course, because this is in a format that you can use it or write.
This functionality is done through e-mail.
It has nothing to do with JavaScript.
But whenever we want to print this color to the brush, we are going to use JavaScript and we have our
clear button here.
All right, so what I'm going to do is I'm just going to provide you with two resources here, right?
So these resources, they are first stuff.
We are going to go over to them.
And now what we are going to do is we are going to use get context method and we are going to specify
a 2D plane.
So the e-mail canvas element Dugit context method returns a drawing context on the canvas or know if
the context identifier is in our support or the canvas has already been set to a different context.
It means that whenever we want to draw something on canvas.
All right.
We need to initialize that drawing capability in JavaScript and we do that through get context.
So the way we do that is before giving you this, I'm just going to come down here and I'm going to
say const seatbacks.
Right.
And we are going to we are going to grab our canvas element or canvas variable and we are going to call
a get context.
Get context.
Matheran it.
All right, and we are going to set it to tudy because we want to initialize it to context for drawing
on the on the canvas.
All right.
And if we come here, I think it's way down below.
This is the canvas rendering context 2D for 2D, OK?
And what it says is the interface it part of Canvas API provides the 2D rendering context for the drawing
surface.
This is what we are looking for on the it provides that capability that we can draw in two dimensions.
It means in the Y axis and in the X axis.
All right.
That is 2D, right?
When it has with and height or it has with length or height and length.
It doesn't matter when it has two dimensions, it is 2D and whenever we specify to 2D, then we can
apply, we can draw on the canvas.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to grab these two and I'm going to put her put them right here.
All right.
And I'm going to you know what?
I'm just going to copy the comment from here and I'm going to put it right here.
Now, this is the canvas get context, method and canvas rendering context 2D in case you want to study
more.
This is where you can find the the authentic documentation for this.
All right.
So this is what allows us to ensure this line is what allows us to draw on canvas.
Right.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to first off, let's go ahead and consider log what actually this
is what it entails.
This is a variable name, of course, but what does it hold?
Let's go ahead and let's consider to the let's look into the console and let's inspect.
Come to the console.
This is can we surrender?
Surrendering context, 2D.
And when we click on it, we have all these methods and all these properties that we can use.
All right, so this is this is what what allows us to write, for example, this is the stroke's style.
We can change the color.
This is the shadow color, for example.
This is the line with is one.
This is the font Felter.
Now, some of these we are going to use.
All right.
So we don't need to do is I'm just going to go ahead and get rid of this cancer, the log.
And I'm going to apply I'm going to declare some variables.
All right.
And these these variables, they're going to hold the initial values for our drawing, for our canvas,
for drawing.
Right.
So initially, what I want is the size, the size of the stroke.
I want it to be 10 y ten because we have specified that in the in the medium.
So whenever you say ten there, let's get rid of this.
Now, this is 10.
We wanted to start from ten, if you specified initially to let's say 30.
And whenever you click on the plus, it is not going to be eleven, it's going to be thirty one, which
is not accurate.
Right.
So this is our size at first.
The size the size is going to hold in the number ten, then we are going to add another.
We are going to create another variable and that is is pressed initially.
It should be false.
The reason that it is false is whenever you're not pressing the left key and when you're hovering over
this canvas, we do not want to draw anything.
So let me just go ahead and open up the final project right here.
So this is I'm just going to put it here and let's go ahead and close these two.
So this is the final project.
Whenever I'm when I hover on the canvas, can you you guys can see that we do not draw anything.
But when I click and hold and drag.
Then we're driving.
All right, so this is why that is pressed initially is going to be false.
All right, so the next thing that I want to create here is the color, so, oops, what is that?
So initially I want the color to be black, so I'm going to put it inside and this is going to be strengthened.
Said quotes and the X coordinates is going to be undefined.
All right.
And the Y cornice is also going to be undefined because the user has not clicked.
So we actually we do not know where the user is going to click.
And when we know that we are going to start drawing from the exact spot that the user has started,
started clicking and holding.
So whenever the user clicks here, we do not want to start drawing on the upper left corner.
All right.
So we want to start drawing wherever the user has clicked.
But initially, the user has not clicked anywhere.
That's why we do not know the value for this.
Right.
So this is going to be it for this lecture.
In the next lecture, we will be going over some steps and then we will be actually creating or drawing
circles and drawing lines on the canvas.
See you guys in the next lecture.